Add Sycamore page (#8234)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _tools/sycamore.md

> # Sycamore ETL

Reviewer: Should the topic name be just "Sycamore"?
```suggestion
# Sycamore
```

> [Sycamore](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore) is an open source, AI-powered document processing engine to prepare unstructured data for RAG and semantic search using Python. Sycamore can chunk and enrich a wide range of complex document types including reports, presentations, transcripts, manuals, and more, and it can extract and process embedded tables, figures, graphs, and other infographics. It can then load a target index, including vector and keyword indexes, using a connector (like the [OpenSearch connector](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/connectors/opensearch.html)). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sycamore](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore) is an open-source, AI-powered document processing engine designed to prepare unstructured data for retrieval-augmented generation (RA)G and semantic search using Python. Sycamore supports chunking and enriching a wide range of complex document types, including reports, presentations, transcripts, and manuals. Additionally, Sycamore can extract and process embedded elements, such as tables, figures, graphs, and other infographics. It can then load the data into target indexes, including vector and keyword indexes, using a connector like the [OpenSearch connector](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/connectors/opensearch.html). 
```

[Visit the Sycamore documentation](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started.html) to get started.

> # Structure of an ETL Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sycamore ETL pipeline structure
```

A Sycamore ETL pipeline is a series of transformations on a [DocSet](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started/concepts.html#docsets), which is a collection of documents and their constintuent elements (e.g. a table, block of text, or header). At the end of the pipeline, the DocSet is loaded into OpenSearch vector and keyword indexes.

> A pipeline to prepare unstructured data for vector or hybrid search in OpenSearch generally has these parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical pipeline for preparing unstructured data for vector or hybrid search in OpenSearch consists of the following steps:
```

* Read documents into a [DocSet](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started/concepts.html#docsets)
* [Partition documents](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/transforms/partition.html) into structured JSON elements

> * Extract metadata, filter, and clean data with [transforms](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/APIs/docset.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extract metadata, filter and clean data using [transforms](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/APIs/docset.html)
```

* Create [chunks](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/transforms/merge.html) from groups of elements
* Embed with the model of your choice

> * [Load](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/connectors/opensearch.html) OpenSearch

Author: It's loading more than embeddings though. I can be more specific.

> You can see an example pipeline with this flow in [this notebook](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore/blob/main/notebooks/opensearch_docs_etl.ipynb).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example pipeline that follows this flow, see [this notebook](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore/blob/main/notebooks/opensearch_docs_etl.ipynb).
```

# Install Sycamore

> We recommend installing the Sycamore library using `pip`. The connector for OpenSearch can be installed via extras. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend installing the Sycamore library using `pip`. You can then install the connector for OpenSearch as follows:
```

Author: This isn't really a two step process, you specify it when you install. I'll clarify.

```
pip install sycamore-ai[opensearch]
```

> By default, Sycamore works with the Aryn Partitioning Service to process PDFs. To run inference locally for partitioning or embedding, install the local-inference extra as follows:

Author: No - unfortunately, that's what pip calls this option.

```
pip install sycamore-ai[opensearch,local-inference]

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy.html %}
````

---
layout: default
title: Sycamore
nav_order: 210
has_children: false
---

# Sycamore

[Sycamore](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore) is an open-source, AI-powered document processing engine designed to prepare unstructured data for retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) and semantic search using Python. Sycamore supports chunking and enriching a wide range of complex document types, including reports, presentations, transcripts, and manuals. Additionally, Sycamore can extract and process embedded elements, such as tables, figures, graphs, and other infographics. It can then load the data into target indexes, including vector and keyword indexes, using a connector like the [OpenSearch connector](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/connectors/opensearch.html). 

To get started, visit the [Sycamore documentation](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started.html).

# Sycamore ETL pipeline structure

> A Sycamore Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) pipeline applies a series of transformations to a [DocSet](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started/concepts.html#docsets), which is a collection of documents and their constituent elements (for example, tables, blocks of text, or headers). At the end of the pipeline, the DocSet is loaded into OpenSearch vector and keyword indexes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Sycamore extract, transform, load (ETL) pipeline applies a series of transformations to a [DocSet](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started/concepts.html#docsets), which is a collection of documents and their constituent elements (for example, tables, blocks of text, or headers). At the end of the pipeline, the DocSet is loaded into OpenSearch vector and keyword indexes.
```

A typical pipeline for preparing unstructured data for vector or hybrid search in OpenSearch consists of the following steps:

> * Read documents into a [DocSet](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started/concepts.html#docsets)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Read documents into a [DocSet](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/get_started/concepts.html#docsets).
```

> * [Partition documents](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/transforms/partition.html) into structured JSON elements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Partition documents](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/transforms/partition.html) into structured JSON elements.
```

> * Extract metadata, filter and clean data using [transforms](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/APIs/docset.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extract metadata, filter, and clean data using [transforms](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/APIs/docset.html).
```

> * Create [chunks](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/transforms/merge.html) from groups of elements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create [chunks](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/sycamore/transforms/merge.html) from groups of elements.
```
